Agenda Austria
Jeff Booth: Good deflation, bad inflation & role of bitcoin
00:00:01	I'd like to welcome Jeff Booth, the author of `The Price of Tomorrow` in  German, `Der Preis der Zukunft`. and that's the reason why we are sitting here  today. Hello Jeff! – Hi Nico, nice to meet you. Thank you very much for taking the time. –  Yeah, no problem at all. You wrote this book in 2019, right? That's right, and it was published shortly  before we had the whole corona thing, the crisis going on. Exactly. It published in, I  think, January 20, 2020. It says why deflation might  be the key to an abundant future.

00:00:40	And now, deflation and inflation, that's a very  hotly debated topic everywhere around the world, but especially in Germany and Austria.  People hate inflation here. We had the hyperinflation in  the 1920s and still, you know, the families know about it,  the institutions know about it. Right now the inflation rates are going  up, and you're talking about deflation. Something doesn't add up. And that's why your book is so interesting,  because you have a thesis that's different. What do we see right now, why do we see  inflation, but why should we talk about deflation?

00:01:19	We live in a world that's designed for inflation, and so our entire system is designed for,  call it two percent inflation, and that's it. And and i don't know if you've heard the saying: "When a measurement becomes an objective, it  ceases to be valuable as a measurement tool". And so we have two  percent inflation that is designed, and central banks around  the world are trying to meet that, and if you investigate that a  little deeper, why do we want inflation? So you'd say so inflation is just  when your money is worth less each year.

00:02:03	So we have a policy around the  world, designed around the world, that we should have our  money worth less each year, and we believe that's required  for a productive society. But why do we believe that? What's the reason?  Because we were conditioned into believing it. "Hyperinflation is bad, but inflation at two  percent is good". And combined with recency bias – at least in the western world we haven't  lived through a hyperinflation event, since when you talk about Germany and Austria and what happened to lead up  to World War II and everything else.

00:02:42	We haven't lived through  a hyperinflationary event, so we just trust that central bankers  know what they're doing and drive a two percent inflation rate,  which was really theft, right. So, I steal your money, it's a hidden tax which  arbitrarily takes from the middle class and poor and gives to the rich, because the rich  have assets that go up with inflation. The opposite side of inflation is wage deflation or savings deflation, so  it's one and the same thing. So your income or your savings rate is  going down. So, when the German and the

00:03:21	Austrian savers are mad at Christine  Lagarde they have a right to do so? We're going to get into this –  they have a major right to do so. It's way worse than than  they probably even realize. And we would investigate some of that here too. So, on one side we live in a system  where we have been led to believe that our money must be worth less each  year to live in a productive society, but two percent is okay, so theft at two percent is okay, but if it went to theft  at five percent that's a bad thing.

00:03:58	But when you investigate that,  you'd say: Is that true, right? So it has been true, and we live in that society, but what's happening is that you have  a bigger force moving the other way. So technology creates efficiency, and technology is moving exponentially into  every single industry at blinding speed. It's almost incomprehensible  how fast that's moving, and that means that efficiency  is exponentially deflationary. So technology moves one way... So you have two  different systems moving the exact opposite way:

00:04:38	One system essentially requiring deflation to allow the abundance gained from  technology to be able to be broadly shared. It's a requirement of where  we're going in the digital age. And a system that we've lived in all of  our life, that we measure everything by, moving the opposite way. And they're moving faster and  faster away from each other. Some simple examples: in GDP 20 years ago you  would have seen, as a part of the GDP measure, you would have seen photography. And think about the entire  industry based on photography:

00:05:21	editing, film distribution, driving back and forth  to the stores that require film distribution, and buying and the selling film to be  able to take a small amount of pictures, and Kodak was the king of that. And they invented the digital camera. Today all of that is gone, yet we  have an abundance in photography. And that abundance is free.  We take more and more photos, all the editing software  is available on our phones. We have unlimited photos, we use way  more photos, and it's completely free.

00:06:01	And so, where does that as an  example show up in positive GDP? So that productivity that's happening  everywhere is actually negative GDP. So it's moving one way. Hasn't that always been the case,  that technology is deflationary? Yes, but if you look at cycles and  why everybody can feel something's wrong but they can't put their finger on it. Technology never moved  as fast as it's moving today. I use the example in in the book: They have folding a piece of paper on itself and  folding the piece, kind of an exponential pattern.

00:06:42	So if you fold a piece of paper on itself a normal  eight and a half piece by eleven piece of paper, if you could continue folding it past  seven folds and continue folding it for 50 times, how thick would that piece of paper be? And the piece of paper would  be from here to the sun. I've asked that question to tens of thousands  of people in live audiences and everything else and and 99.9 % of the people  guess about two inches and what that says if 50 %  of the people got the answer? Then I think the human condition would say, okay  we're okay because we understand exponential

00:07:23	patterns. But because nobody gets the answer  including me and that everybody thinks they can get the answer once they know that once they know  the answer, but it we it says human beings are really bad at exponential patterns yet we have an  exponential pattern on Moore's Law and technology moving at that rate. And where are we on if you  compare that analogy of folding piece of paper to the sun to today on technology we're unfold 33  moving to fold 34. So that means the steep steps everything in technology over the last 50 years  likely doubles in the next two years. So, when

00:08:04	we look forward we can't grasp the rate of change, the rate of change isn't just speeding up the rate of changes is exponential. Now, let me just  connect that to what we were talking about in the world we formerly lived  in inflation was still a theft ,but it was managed because technology wasn't  moving as fast and so it was it you had these 80 or 100 years debt cycles that created  these big debt bubbles that had to be reset and they were typically reset through revolution and war and then you started

00:08:40	again. Today we live in a different world, and  it's moving and technology is moving faster and faster the other way so it's happening  at a rate we can't even comprehend. Breaking the system at a rate we can't comprehend, so if you connect those things I think what's happened is 30 years ago your actual natural  rate of disinflation based on technology would have been negative one percent, and  all over the world you've had central bankers lowering lowering interest rates trying to get the  target up to two percent and constantly missing

00:09:21	the two percent. Everybody around the world is measuring off zero when it was negative one percent and  why they're missing is it's going faster the other way that was thirty years ago. Today  the actual negative rate through technology gain might be negative five percent per year. How  could you know that? I'm just I'm extrapolating what's happening underneath from what's  happening in technology I can't know that from a data because the data is messy. Because, we're looking at data through an

00:09:54	inflationary system and printing money to  make inflation happen no matter what cost ,and the cost of that why people are  talking about okay we get inflation temporary inflation and then it  falls back down is because that money printing is distorting every price signal in  the world. And the inflation deflation debate is kind of a red herring. What's really happening  is and so policymakers say keep on printing staggering amounts of money to drive inflation and  then they say we have more room because inflation

00:10:34	rates can't they can't they can't keep up so we're  not hitting our rates, so we need more printing to be able to cause it. But what's what's happening  is that society is breaking because of that, you're essentially concentrating all  wealth and power into very few hands and technology is moving the other  way and just this simple example. If you if you think about any rational actor I own  a whole bunch of technology companies what would i do if my if product if it's costing more and more  through labor because of because monetary easing

00:11:13	wouldn't I use technology to be able to give  more value faster and remove labor faster. So the inflation is actually accelerating the whole  process? Exactly, so you remember two different systems reinforcing the exact opposite way. You  are, you just alluded to the fact that you're an author of the book, but you're not an economist  you're not like an author who has written 12 books ,you're an entrepreneur. Can you tell tell us  about a bit about yourself, where you came from as an entrepreneur, and also how did you come to the  epiphany about the deflation? So what I´d say, I'm

00:11:49	curious I've always been curious and and I'd say  what drove that curiosity was an accountability. I wanted to create a better place in the world  for me and for every business as an entrepreneur. Essentially what you do, is say how can I provide  more value? I see a structure that's broken and if you provide more value to people you can create  a whole bunch of wealth for yourself by providing more value to other people. It's actually the  only way entrepreneurs win, because if you don't provide more value and it's a hard thing to do  because you're dealing in a really competitive

00:12:22	world with monopoly power and everything else  and to create that you have to find enough value to break free of a monopoly and everything  else to benefit society to actually win. When you think about that process which that's  what I do in a whole bunch of different businesses that process must be especially with technology,  assuming that every rational actor is only voting for your goods or services. Because,  they're trying to get more for less that process in a free market must give  more for less, it must be deflationary.

00:13:03	And so I couldn't understand my first business, it took I can't remember the exact number  ,but between five and six million dollars and about 60 developers over two years to  develop the technology um 20 years ago that today is available for essentially free. Every  entrepreneur can just plug into 50 a month or a sas model that gives actually better technology  that it took all of that to build on top of a sas model for 50 dollars a month through Shopify,  or something, or Amazon, and it's moving faster

00:13:50	and faster. So if you just think about all of  that labor to do my one company replicated times thousands, hundreds of thousands of different  companies to where it is today you'd think. Why aren't prices coming down everywhere right? We  see in our phones we get more for less every app every app we use we get more for less. If  you look at your phone at the amount of amount of things that is it's moved out of cost  to now abundance it's why we use our phones it's why we sell it it's actually why we create every  monopoly power because they give us more for less

00:14:27	and I couldn't understand why that wasn't  translating into lower prices everywhere and so when I and it was bugging me it was  really bugging me it was something I was talking about for years and years so being curious, I wanted to learn every single thing about why. And, I would say as an entrepreneur I didn't  have a bias to how the system had to run I wanted I was more curious just like  I wanted to what could it look like and what must it look like for the world digital  world we're moving into and that led me onto.

00:15:06	You said something I think it's important,  I didn't want to write the book. I actually I for years, if you talk to my  wife and everything else or friends around, this is something I was talking about for  10 years and I did not want to write a book. But, I could not believe that nobody could put the  pieces together you had these technology utopians driving one way and talking about how  more and more wealth and you had a financial system moving the exact opposite way. Every single measurement in our world driven by

00:15:41	kind of that juxtaposition of two different  systems operating and it was it I just got mad. I looked forward and I saw the world  that my my kids would grow up in would be a really dangerous world if somebody didn't  do something, so that's why I wrote the book Where do we stand right now in your opinion ? You said it's because if we look at if we think  about this it's a bit like um exponential growth. After afterwards we do see it like with the  Iphone right the Iphone is 12 years old ,but we we use it five to six hours a day. Which is  crazy we use it for everything? Where do you see

00:16:26	technology moving next? Where do you see it? Is  it everywhere? Is it in specific sectors that we should look to? So why this is so confusing for  people. Yeah is they're measuring their reality through a system that is manipulating their  reality and so you walk away and you believe okay well my house price could go up and up  forever, yet I vote every day for other things to come down in price I vote with my wallet so every  regional actor is choosing to get more for less. With that alone right, every rational actor  worldwide, and I mean by rational actor, I

00:17:07	mean you and me and every single person listening  to this podcast. You don't get a vote with your money to get less for more. You vote with your  money and your time to get more for less. That's why you use an Iphone. That's why you use that's  why you use Google. That's why you use Amazon. That's why you are constantly voting with that.  How is it possible that with that being true that you could also believe in a  system that has to work the other way ? Has it ever worked? So, it does for time periods.  So why um and these are complicated topics but it

00:17:46	almost require rewiring your brain and people push  back from that because they're so entrenched in a system. Some of the hard data from the book  over the last 20 years. So today in the world. Actually, take last year because  now the number is way higher, but there was over 250 trillion dollars of  global debt to support a global economy of 80 trillion dollars. And realise that if you have  that much debt and you have to pay that debt back then growth has to slow in the future because  your tax rate has to go up to pay that debt or

00:18:25	or new economy or new growth opportunities  have to be huge to be able to offset that growth rate so as they did the debt goes up  that high it becomes a burden on future growth because the because the rate of interest  has to go to cover that just alone. But then when you investigate that and that  sounds like an alarmingly high number. But when you actually look deeper at that number 185  trillion of that 250 came over the last 20 years. As you would expect if  technology was moving one way and you had to keep in stasis going the other way

00:19:04	And so now where are we? So now what you can  expect is technology is still moving this way. Every single company needs to remove labor faster  and they have more and more tools to be able to do that and debt is exploding. That's why you  could, that's why it was easy to predict from a system standpoint what the next steps if you  were going through the book all the next steps that would happen logically. Um, it almost gives  you a cheat code for where the world's going. And the debt has to that has to grow higher  and higher and higher and be monetised because

00:19:39	there's no way to pay it back. It's just math  there's just there's no way to pay it back. But the central bankers, the politicians, do  they know that? So okay, and this is why these are these are really hard concepts, because we  live in the system we measure everything else. You use 185 trillion dollars everybody  thinks their house always goes up in value and they've never asked the question, would my  household go up in value without a 185 trillion dollars of stimulus over the last 20 years. The answer is simply no. Houses would go down

00:20:14	or stay constant. The value has gone up because  because you essentially you're destroying monetary value and assets are trying to hold some of  that value as you're monetising into that. So do bankers know about this? Now first, I  suspect not, I suspect most people on the planet don't know what we're talking about right now.  I wish they did that's why I wrote the book, and the book's been crazy adopted. So a lot of  people are starting to wake up to this concept. But, imagine you were a central banker  given the options that we just said.

00:21:01	What would you do? Because the existing system  based on credit, because there's nothing backing it there's not gold backing it there's nothing  backing it. It's a system based on debt. It's the system based on credit, and if you allow credit  if you allow deflation into a credit-based system. The system keeps unwinding and it keeps on  unwinding because because I owe you money you owe somebody else money, and we  all think that that money is real. We would have that debt deflation  before we get to the actual deflation?

00:21:36	So that's the problem. You would have every asset  around the world and every government would fail every bank would fail. As you repriced everything  in an instant, and as soon as that deflation started to happen as soon as a real market  started to happen why governments are trying to fight deflation at all costs is because because  it would unwind the entire world to the sand. But, they don't realise that the  consequence the the opposite consequences of trying to inflate send us through  a path of either central control of

00:22:14	everything. Which uh which is looks like  totalitarianism it's it's it's a horrific human future so where you have a  small number of people in control of everything with artificial intelligence and  robotics. That is the path we're on right now. That sounds like China. Yeah, but worse China. It sounds like China, but if you actually keep going keep going with how  much control is consolidated as a result of that and how much less labor is needed it  looks like China on steroids. That is and if you believe that one human or a couple of  humans should have domain over all other humans

00:22:58	without realisation that they will  change their mind. Absolute power corrupts absolutely ,um you have a you have  humanity destined for a really dystopian future. So that is one alternative. That is the path that  we're on that's what it looks like. Along that path you also have path two. Which is revolution  and war people start waking up to this and that path creates a geopolitical risks all over the  world just ask this, this is kind of on China. In 2013, China stopped buying bonds in  the US, which is the government bonds.

00:23:40	Before that, essentially, China was giving vendor  financing, keeping interest rates low in the US so consumers would buy more Chinese goods. Then,  China realised okay US won't pay the back their debts, so we can't we got to stop buying those  bonds, and what would China invest in? They would invest in rare earth minerals and everything else  and so they would take up natural pieces of the ecosystem that are there where we are going for  a digital transition. When that happens you get politicians realising there's a huge geopolitical  risk here and creating kind of war machines

00:24:21	to be able to say, it's their fault that you look  that your problem looks like this. And by the way, when you talk about Germany and Austria. We've  seen these patterns repeat throughout history it's pretty pretty simple. The first thing you  do is you control your population through fear and you say it's those people.  Because, people will believe it and when concentration of wealth  gets as high as it's getting. More of the population votes for people to that  believe that, they'll believe in more printing.

00:24:52	They'll believe in if I get so i don't have food  my housing prices keep going up, and they don't realise that the government is actually creating  those housing prices, and food prices to go up ,and they vote for governments who will give them  more redistribute that by doing the same thing. The printing and the inflation is responsible for  the concentration of wealth at the top right? It's responsible for it and what ends up happening  is, but it creates an us versus them mentality, because a lot of the people are left out of that  and that's the populace and those people vote

00:25:28	for a different person in control  but versus on the same system to be able to help them because they don't  understand what we're talking about at the root cause of it all. So they vote kind of the system  carries forward they vote for the same system to drive more inflation to be able to give them  uh some of the money which further concentrates the wealth and power. And that's the system  that we're in today and it's pretty logical why people do that. There's one problem inflation  is easy, why should we not go that path you know

00:26:05	as a society because it is the easy way?  So that's the problem we don't think and we don't think about the and that's why  politicians don't think about it too. You're not going to get elected, no one right now  would get elected saying we're going to cause a deflationary debt collapse and everything's going  to reprice and every hospital shutdown, every bank will shut down ,everybody's going to lose their  money and we're going to reset and don't worry it'll be a happy future, good luck, right! We  tried a little bit of that in austerity in the

00:26:39	euro crisis in the 2010´s. But again because  I said the unwind would wind to the sand as soon as that austerity and that's when  the taper tantrum was the same thing. All of these things are the same. They're the  same thing there is no possible mathematical way out of the existing system that allows  deflation to be able to to happen without a complete reset and there's no way a politician  could get elected in that system to be able to allow that. That system has already that  system is we don't realise it it's already over

00:27:18	,but the consequences the consequences of on  humanity, our time, our labor. Essentially, if you think about we spend 40 years of  our life trying to accumulate enough money and working on our time and everything  else to try to live the last number of years of our life in relatable safety. And  on a keystroke that can be taken from you. Now it is, it has been taken every day.  Every day on a keystroke, it's taken from you essentially it's theft at the highest order  on a keystroke so but again we're measuring our

00:27:54	world and every other economic calculation  from that world believing it to be true. And when technology is moving exactly the other  way. But where does the money end up? I mean who steals it. So if you, if governments had to be  truthful to you what most of the most of their revenue comes through inflation if they have to be  truthful you with you on what taxes you would have to pay to run society or everything else. Then  essentially moving the theft to above the line to truth. Government would have to get smaller. Government would have to be, be more nimble

00:28:39	and they would have they  would have to listen to voters who determine. It would be a true democracy, it would be it would look like a true democracy. Today by hiding it in inflation, government  can get bigger and bigger and bigger. I'll give you a stat in 2019 um if you taxed  every US corporation 100%. So, if you, if they made no profits at all you took all of  the profits uh that's 2.25 trillion dollars. They printed 5 trillion last year. They will print another 5 trillion this year. You can't even touch taxes is a red herring.  Most of the government revenue comes from

00:29:25	from inflation, which is a hidden  theft. So in other words and then people bite on tax taxes all the time because  it creates an enemy. How dare those rich people control all of the wealth. We're going to  tax them more to be able to get elected. When the exact same thing keeps happening  where most of the revenue comes through inflation and it's a structural problem. So but  why would we vote for that? Why would you vote for why ,I wouldn't but? Why would people vote for that because they don't see it. They don't see

00:30:00	it that. What they, what they see is okay. I  get all these services and everything else and I want more and more. The electorate wants more  and more for l wants more and more all the time and when it when when a when a government,  when governments all over the world can hide giving more without taxing more it's below our  view. So it becomes really easy to have a system that is actually based on  a fraud feedback on itself. Are you saying that the natural state  of things without that financial system

00:30:38	basically without central banks would be  deflationary? 100% the natural state of the world human innovation and progress assuming  we don't keep on creating the if assuming we're learning things and getting better all  the time then that has to be deflationary. Is there anything bad about the deflation?  And this is this is important uh really important because what people will hear about inflation deflation debate. What they've been programmed to believe is people will buy less, and  the market will collapse, and everything else, and

00:31:18	part of that is true by the way. The whole climate  crisis and everything else is caused by inflation. So you cannot stop so we'll get to that  in a second but climate cannot be solved through an inflationary monetary policy. An  inflationary monetary policy is climate change because it forces society to buy more and  more drive more and more back and forth as soon as oil prices start going down because new  energy clean energy is additive to the energy grid monetary policy must print money to make oil  prices go back up. To make all prices go up,

00:31:53	so we're forced on an ever increasing  spiral to buy more and more and more and work more and more and more in a manufactured  environment that destroys our planet. Are you basically saying that because  there have been there have been inflationary periods and booms that  turned out to be fake in the past? Are you basically saying we are in the  middle of a 50-year inflationary boom? Yes, so that but we don't notice it because technology  is moving the other way. So if technology wasn't and you had that much printing. The  inflation rate would have skyrocketed.

00:32:35	Where does it show up? It shows up in what people  are feeling right now working harder and harder for less and less and wondering what's wrong and  why are those people over there. How did they get so wealthy? Yeah, I think the world's 50 richest  50 people gained 1.8 trillion dollars this year. Yeah it's in the in the newspapers all the time,  the damn rich people. So, how did that happen? It happened because of the same thing we're  talking about. And so when people are people are wondering why. Essentially, their labor rate  is going down. They're working more and more hours

00:33:15	trying to stay on this mouse wheel, going faster  and faster. They're starting to wake up to what we're talking about. But, they don't know the fix  yet. They don't know and so you have one system, you have these two systems colliding against each  other it's really but again because people measure everything by their daily life. And it's really  easy to believe in climate change is caused by uh it because you see it all around you but  you you don't connect it to it being caused by inflation it is caused by what we do, but is that  we do the things we do because of inflation we do

00:33:54	the things we do because of inflation and every  rational actor forced through an inflationary policy will do the exact things things to try to  gain leverage and get out of the system and try to win against a system that's being manipulated  faster and faster because what's really happening is their time money is an arbitrary concept money  is all it is is a trade of your time we actually don't want more money we want more time we want  is we the money is a placeholder for what we think it will buy us in the future it'll buy us more  time more vacation more more i can vote i can get

00:34:37	this i can retire with safety we trade our time  for money hoping that that might that time will be more valuable later on so if you arbitrarily  with keystroke distort money you distort our time you destroy our time and so the consequences are  really obvious what will happen next is society is trying to figure out what's happening here  and they're trying to figure out if you look at through history if you look at some of the worst  sins in humanity they come as a result of this and somebody gaining that much control on a population  because of this but it's easy to believe.

00:35:23	So basically what you're saying is that  Christine Lagarde is stealing my time. Yes and Apple Google and Microsoft are  giving some of it back because I can talk to you right now without flying over to  Canada yeah and why you create why we are creating these monopolies and we're voting with  our time that all of this that we're doing right now is free that couldn't happen 20 years ago  completely free um and and and it couldn't happen 20 years ago and it doesn't show before if we had  to do this 20 years ago we would have to get on a

00:35:57	flight the cost all of the jobs of of that and  it could only it could only see the people that were at the conference all of those and everything  else today it's it that digital distribution this interview could go it could go to Africa it could  go all over the world it's free information here's probably a better way to look at it um things  become information, information becomes free and everything is becoming  information. Do you think that people there's this concept of time preference  right if i have a low time preference

00:36:36	i'm a saver i keep my money i consume it later  if i have a high time preference i just spend it immediately consume consume consume do you think  that people are predisposed with a time difference I think a lot of so so if you just look at  government policy if you just and i'm not i'm not trying to insinuate anything here  i'm just saying actually look at the facts when a government says we have negative interest  rates and native bond yields and everything else and effectively telling the market we are  going to destroy the value of your currency

00:37:17	what would people do wouldn't well they start  spending it they they start spending they start spending they start consuming more they start  trying to figure out. How do i get out of this and everything else? Huge speculation speculation  all of the all of these things are natural consequences of that but put it this way let's  imagine you're a ceo of a fortune 500 company and and you know this is happening and cash on your  balance sheet let's use an airline for example um cash on your balance sheet is the  worst thing you could have because

00:37:54	you know it's going to lose value and  other ceos of other competing airlines are investing their shares in cash in buybacks  to enrich in shareholders because because and you hold cash saving for a rainy day that would be  the normal course of action and in in a rainy day the person who saved cash would be able to  acquire other airlines and everything else and and the same as and that same thing would happen  personally and everything else people saving would over time win because their cash is worth more in  today's society it looks exactly the opposite so

00:38:36	what would it would the rational choice for a ceo  to be rational choice would be lever lever lever buyback shares use leverage to buy  back shares then rainy day comes and they go back to the same government  um and they say i have to lay off all these people unless you bail me out and  the government is forced to bail them out because of the same problem that  government created in the first place So you just talked about a dystopian future  basically total control of everything now we know that so i mean we know that  cannot work well so it can work it just looks

00:39:19	terrible it can work and so it's to it works in russia works in china it just looks terrible for humanity and that by the way these things happen today so look what happens to Navalny in Russia and  look what happens in Saudi Arabia to a journalist these things happen today they  happen all over the world today we don't we oh that's just one isolated  incident it is the normal course of today when power centralises as much  power power it's a normal course and and I often ask myself why don't enough people  stand up because if enough people stood up

00:40:11	to that it would the government would fail the  the next day and you would and you would change it but why people don't stand up to it or enough  people stand up to it is people seek safety because standing up to it is so risky for your  family your health your livelihood and everything else that not enough people will stand up to it  same thing in Nazi Germany same thing and all over the world you see the same thing not enough people  will stand stand up to that type of power even though they might know that it's the right thing  to do they're waiting for everybody else to do it

00:40:52	and that's the human nature thing and so I  don't think we're going to change that we're not going to get more people to stand up to it  now carry that forward now carry that forward that's looking at with the lens of history on what  happens more way more people seek safety and hide in this in the system that looks like that  then we'll stand up against it and that gives the system way more control to be able to  pick off the people that stand up against it over and over and over and over again  now now carry that forward where

00:41:25	we're going with technology because  artificial intelligence is coming. Artificial intelligence and  robotics mean mean that that power consolidates even more and it consolidates  unilaterally and so if you allow a system to reinforce on itself like this i suspect no  one will be able to stand up against that might. Yeah, but who is controlling the system who are  the people so a very few number of people and when you say Christine Lagarde or other people today  and again it's easy to turn on those people people

00:42:02	i actually don't believe that they actually  have done the consequences of the actions on what that will mean for society. I don't I actually don't believe they potentially they're looking they're looking near term and  they're worried so much about the collapse of inflation that they're trying to run out of it  and trying to create more and more essentially misinformation to be able to keep the structure  in place we didn't want to be the pilot when the plane crashes you know totally and that's  what they're doing they're doing the same

00:42:31	thing that any business does look at what Kodak  did even though they invented the digital camera look at what Blockbuster in the us did when  Netflix provided more for less and though and they added candy aisles to their stores thinking  that people wanted to drive to the store to get candy or popcorn with their movies instead of  downloading them through Netflix it's a natural course of action for the system to take a natural  set of events to protect the system at all costs. I look at all the people in the  system today that's what they're doing

00:43:03	for fear of consequences of a total  reset and in that view. Now any system whether it's a bitcoin system, whether it's any  system has good and back bad actors. And a lot of times in a system that has gone on like this a lot  of people will will look like really bad actors at the top, but I'd say most of it is caused by  a system reinforcing itself and those people it might be narcissism. It might be and  incentives and education. Exactly it might be I need to do this to have domain over other people  to be able to help them without realising the

00:43:52	consequences of those actions on the next step  and the next step. But, there was one person who definitely knew what he was doing and that  was Alan Greenspan. We know that he knew what he was doing and he was the one lowering  interest rates after the dot com bust yeah and again so what I mean, but on all of these  things what alternative go back in time, because the system is it's been a  credit business system for a long time. In 2008, we saw it, I've said this  on a number of podcasts, but um I

00:44:24	had a business that was  doing hundreds of millions, 120 million dollars in revenue at the  time and had letters of credits all over the world with containers moving all  over the world, hundreds of thousands of containers. A building business right? Yeah a building supply business, a digital building supply business, and in that  time for three days no counterparty on the other side of the world even though we had all the money  backed for these letters of credit. No counter party would take our money because they were  worried about not us they were worried about the

00:44:59	bank failing and everything else. So what happened  for a three-day period is the world stopped most people didn't notice that because they were  they would never have seen that and so you I knew that tarp and all of these things were coming  because what I was just talking about the unwind it would just keep on it'd accelerate  that unwind and it just because there's nothing there and everything just stops  and now the money just disintegrates because there was never any money there anyways. It was just credit and so that cascading unwind

00:45:35	created a way to take essentially bail  out the people that created the problem and a whole bunch of people got really  wealthy through that printing printing of money the same people who got wealthy the banking  financial institutions that created the problem created a wealthy and you destroyed capitalism.  But what you're talking about it even now about Allen Greenspan before that because  it's a mathematical structure that if you allow deflation to happen  which is the natural course of action

00:46:11	it will unwind and so nothing is nothing has  changed. The only thing that's happened that changed in the entire thing in fact again going  back to why I wrote the book this is coming winter is coming and the only thing that's changed is the  the amount of when we think about good deflation bad deflation um what people are worried about  right now is that cascading collapse and deflation which is a complete reset because and they confuse  that with natural progress disinflation, good deflation they are what we want you know more  for less. Exactly, they confuse the two things

00:46:56	but deflation is always always happens after  a debt bubble that can't be paid back that you have to go through a cleansing of the system and  you could go through that cleansing of the system. So, if you if you go totalitarian governments you  might not have to go through the cleansing of the system if you go through war and reset what ends  up happening is you cleanse the system through war and reset and everything resets and that's been  the typical transition path. And so if you look at all of these things and that's why i'm sure we're  going to talk a little bit about Bitcoin as well

00:47:32	you have to where we are today in the world you  have to have a transition path from one system to another system and where technology is leading  in the world us in the world you must must if you don't want door one totalitarianism door two war/ reset. You must have a digitally native currency that allows for deflection, so the abundance  gained from technology's progress is broadly shared. When you started writing that book,  did you already know about Bitcoin? I did um but i would say I and still today i have  uh an open mind could it be something else

00:48:20	um i have not seen another I have not seen  anything um even though I'm open to it i've not seen it so my conviction on Bitcoin  has only grown since writing the book I for a very long time thought  it would be gold. Yeah and again through five thousand years of history it  has always been gold but that doesn't mean uh through five thousand years of history we always  rode horses as well and then we then we invented cars. Um so, Bitcoin is the again the gold has  some some shortcomings, some major shortcomings,

00:49:02	that allows it to be concentrated and then  controlled and controlled and taken away because you have to store gold um you can't  you can't spend a gold bar. It's really hard to it's centrally stored and a currency is built  on top of it and then look at 1971. Essentially, the US changed the rules of gold because  they couldn't pay their debts to France and they went off the gold reserve and that  that and if you look at back into 1933 same thing happened in the US it's a natural  course of history that gold repeats that

00:49:38	gold is was a good store of value always has  been a good store of value, but today Bitcoin is a way better store value because it's an  open monetary network that is decentralised in nature and nobody can take it from you.  Because, it does seem to me that the central banks basically kept the gold as a plan b the whole time  they never talk about it but they still own it. Yeah and they could go back to something really  like a gold standard it's like as a middle way between inflation and actual deflation yeah and so why I um and now I've done a lot of kind of

00:50:17	thinking on this topic thinking could that  be a way. And in a short term if depending on your cycle if you're invested in gold and  everything else there actually could be some head fakes to gold along the way and it's  not a bad investment from that standpoint. Do I own any personally no because I  don't believe in its long-term structure, but could governments do exactly what you  said. Potentially, but here is the potential they would have to agree and you think what's  happening there's less and less trust in the world

00:50:54	and more and more counterparty  risk as as everybody's trying to find their own way to be able to so essentially  you're fracturing societies manufacturing states and they would have to agree to what the  reset would look like. And then how much gold does China have how much gold does US have what is who  owns what and everything else to get to that point I suspect it's not possible without war. It's  all very depressing. Yeah and by the way, I'm a super hopeful entrepreneur I'm  hopeful I'm uh that's why I wrote the book.

00:51:33	But you do give some hope and the hope is always  connected to deflation um something I wanted to add it's interesting I didn't know if you knew  that, but in english we talk about inflation and we talk about price inflation right, to you  know distinguish between the the monetary base, the monetary, the printing basically and  the effects in German we have a word. It's called `Teuerung` which is basically price inflation so we started off with the  original definition of inflation. Interesting,

00:52:06	I'm telling you this because I thought about  this we don't have a word for price deflation we do have one for inflation because it's we  needed that yeah and we don't have one for price deflation. That's interesting and there's  that the third horseman of the apocalypse. He has a like um a scale, the scale is supposed to  be a symbol for famine and inflation. There's also no horsemen for deflation. That's interesting and  and Niko when you when you talk about these things it's amazing how language and these things  reinforce on each other and we don't even

00:52:42	think about what the natural we don't talk about  what we're talking about right now ever. We just keep on going on our merry way in a system that  we know can't survive. And when you investigate, why wouldn't we want things to be less costly?  Why wouldn't we want to get more for less all the time? I think the entire economics  establishment and everything else has almost been brainwashed into this narrative and without  realisation that, and maybe for a reason that I'll get that to this in a second. But, you had  to on top of gold because of the just transported

00:53:27	because transportation everything else you had to  build a layer on top and you had to build extra slack in the system to increase monetary velocity. But on a  technology solution that clears every 10 minutes, you actually don't need more slack in the  system because it clears every 10 minutes. So you get monetary velocity through technology  and so it's a different way through through Bitcoin you have a different type of monetary  velocity which allows that the abundance gained through technology to be broadly shared and  when you when you think about this in um.

00:54:13	Why wouldn't we want more for less? And  how economics is structured economics is structured around uh scarcity, either real or  perceived. It's not structured around value, and the the oxygen you breathe right now is free. Why is the most valuable thing in your life not the most expensive. Well don't  tell the government, they might tax it. Yeah exactly but that's the point.  Why aren't there way more jobs in air control. There aren't more  jobs there because it's abundant. There's jobs in filling tanks underwater  for oxygen because it's scarcity. So we have

00:55:00	our natural state of the world where technology  is creating more and more abundance everywhere it's all around us look at your google maps.  Look at your look at all of the things on your phone that are now free that weren't free  before abundant. As they become abundant, it's impossible to charge for those  things, and why is it impossible to charge because it's a piece of code. That piece of code  can transition everywhere as information becomes free. And more and more competitors will  reach into a market to drive it to free. So

00:55:34	we live in that natural state of the world or that should be the natural state of the world as we look uh and we're we're fighting it with  everything we have hurting society as a result. You don't think that the printing will ever  end okay just like that it will just go on? It will just get worse. So it can't because of the  economic collapse that would happen as a result and when I say economic collapse we have  to again go through that pattern and say how would it be possible if you're Christine  Lagarde if you're Powell and everything else what

00:56:17	would you do right now if you signal if you  signal today that you're coming into Bitcoin. The existing system collapses, yeah um, it all  it all starts unwinding so until the transition path is more tighter now if i were them I would be  driving that door as fast as possible behind the scenes but realising that I almost had to keep  the pretend game going until the structure was it was ready because because we're not ready  to live in an entirely Bitcoin world today. No we are not there. We are not, we are not close, we're so early in that inning and that's actually

00:57:05	what also provides the asymmetric bet on the  upside of wealth creation on Bitcoin. People that understand that, because most people look at  it, most people take a look at where technology is going and and they don't look through an  exponential path. What happens next same thing is the internet and why most people missed what was  happening and all of the value is derived from it today that network effect what was created  starting in 89 of the internet we know it. But, in 95, 96 if you tried to download a cat picture  on the internet, it would have taken a week right.

00:57:41	And most of the value on top of that layer came  way later. Google started in I think 99 or 2000 Amazon was 95 and 95 Facebook was 2006.  If you think about all of the value is on top of that network effect that they built  and built and so where are we in in Bitcoin we're, if you equate it to  where we are in the internet, and kind of rates of growth we're in 1996. And  most of the value is to come it's not uh but people are people are thinking about Bitcoin  through a lens the same way that some people

00:58:19	looked at the internet in 1995 thinking  that, it's always going to look like this. What do you think the central  banks are going to do, are the incentives aligned in a way that they  that they can see Bitcoin like you do is basically a possible solution? So a system or will  they just fight it? They will fight it, they'll fight it uh some countries will um so  some countries and just because of game theory are more incented to go early like what we just  saw in El Salvador I actually didn't predict um

00:58:55	so I wrote a piece called 'The Greatest Game' if  any of your listeners are reading it. iI's on me medium. But it predicts all of the next steps  on what's happening and it's so far almost uh exactly what's happening through central  bank digital currencies why that's a must on the existing system. What will happen  next? The um and on the other side I ,but i didn't i didn't see a country like El Salvador implementing Bitcoin as a payment rail as fast as they they did. Why I didn't see that  is is measured through my my lens in Canada

00:59:40	in a pretty safe society and everything else. I  saw Bitcoin winning store of value first and then and having a 10x advantage  10 times advantage over gold in a store of value and that after store value  then central banks would peg to it. Then one day as Bitcoin went higher and higher it  would turn into a currency as well through the second layer and lightning network.  What I didn't anticipate is is that 10 times value even with something that's as upwardly volatile  as Bitcoin, in El Salvador provides 10 times

01:00:21	value to their citizens because they're is so  blocked out of a financial system. That even with that price volatility it's way more valuable  than the than the US dollar or whatnot looks like. So now you have on Bitcoin the monetary network  kind of the store of value and layer two reinforcing each other faster and faster.  Now how many El Salvadors are there versus the G7 and so when you when you think about  now who benefits more becoming earlier on Bitcoin adoption what you can see really clearly is that  at a certain point along this transition that more

01:01:05	and more countries must adopt it driving  the network effect faster and faster and faster and more to all all parties on it and so  I suspect that the G7 will be late to the party. I wish that wasn't the case. I'm hopeful that  I'm hopeful that at least they'll um move into Bitcoin mining into the uh and such but uh but  I suspect they'll be late. But basically I mean have you ever tried going to the street and  telling a random person that the seven most powerful nations in the world will not be able to  stop that silly little Bitcoin thing that we've

01:01:49	heard on the news from. Because, people don't  really think about Bitcoin as much as you do. Yeah and I have I spend is but you know I  spend a lot of time here thinking through this. But I will tell you this at the  highest orders of all different business government everything else this is  being talked about way more than you think. Here's a simple way for your listeners  to think about it. Name the last time that a technology that empowered individual  rights and freedoms and humanity was stopped.

01:02:32	It's never been never happened so we forgot  about it, but yeah maybe we forgot about it but I can't imagine us forgetting about something that  is this pervasive on a network effect that drives it so printing press would be an example printing  press gave a lot of information and power and moved it from the church to humanity and we built  more value on top of essentially that information asymmetry that existed in the church to drive  a scientific revolution on top of this. It was more minds came in and more information and then  because of the written word was codified other

01:03:10	people could error correct off of that information  so first you have to add an abundance of more information and a lot of misinformation into  that which was error corrected by the technology and more people. So the technology created more  information and then the technology, more people error corrected the information. Today that  technology that's doing that same thing is in an order of magnitude versus the printing  press probably 20 orders of magnitude different than the printing ,because but it's doing the  same thing. You have information exploding and a

01:03:46	lot of that information having misinformation you  have actually misinformation in the base of money which must create more misinformation everywhere  else and you have it being error corrected at a rate as well and so what you're what you're  seeing on bitcoin is that error correction. It's happening with that and it's happening  way faster than most people anticipate I don't understand the error correction. So what who used the printing press in the beginning? I am supposed to know this? Churches! Yes.

01:04:25	Essentially, to create this is the way that the  that you have to live because the church says so and then what ended up happening. Different religions sprung out of the same thing that created more control over people through  this exact same thing now my difference protestant versus catholics. Tiny little control variations  to say this is the way versus this is a way and a lot of people believing that. But as as  that as that printing press drove more information and out you could contribute individuals  could contribute to that information graph

01:05:06	and sometimes their ideas, Galileo for instance  and others, contradicted what we observed through the world the contradicted long-held  beliefs and it was forced to have an answer and that error correction through  people forcing forcing an action is something that has a contradiction.  Created what I said science and everything that sits on top of that. That same thing is  happening today um and I would say Bitcoin forces an answer to what we're talking  about today. The technology, my book forces

01:05:51	an answer to how is how is inflation congruent  with her humanity thriving in a technology driven world. But is there any way of moving from the  old system to a new system that is not horrible? Bitcoin is the most hopeful path but there's  going to be a lot of people hurt through this transition systems are messy.  Why do people get hurt? A lot of people that are levering  up into the existing system and trying to gain more and more wealth in the  existing system and buy more and more houses. What they're really doing is  magnifying their risk to one country.

01:06:46	Right so if I bought a whole bunch of houses  in one country, because I don't realise that my and I levered up to be able to do that and  my rents are going higher and all these people are paying higher and higher rents  and I'm getting rich and rich as a result. I might not see that when revolution  comes to be able to take my housing back. I might not see that and then where would  I go because all my wealth is tied to that one country. Where would i go? It's a  fascinating facet of people that they would

01:07:20	they're obsessed with real estate. Yeah but that, so let's dig into that more. I actually think that this might be a little crazy, but think  about this from first principle standpoint. Real estate primarily, our fascination with owning  real estate, is actually what gives the state its power to be able to create an inflationary  environment. Because we think those property rights will last forever and and it's our way  of control and it locks us into one country and when revolution come. Look at Lebanon,  look at anywhere. That same thing happens

01:08:07	you can't get out all of your wealth is stored in  real estate and you're locked in forever. You can very literally also not get out of the system  because you're in debt now. You have to go work and pay the house off for 30 years and then you're  too tired. You're sitting in a system reinforcing on the system without the realisation of  what that system and the benefits to you the externalities of that system hurt, how  that system hurts a whole bunch of other people because you're winning in that system and you're  winning more and more you don't realize that okay

01:08:40	my rents went up. I have this vast real  estate empire and all the rents went up which really meant that the somebody else's  savings and they're working harder and harder trying to catch that and it's impossible to  catch it and at some point whether government takes your real estate back and or taxes  it totally different to redistribute it. Or um all your time labor to be able to do that  or these people come to rise up and steal it back or take it back through a revolution. You don't  even realise it and you're locked into a system.

01:09:12	I often ask myself, because we can see this.  Everything I'm talking about right now if you actually zoom out from your own personal spot  and look through the lens of the world you can see it everywhere. The signposts are absolutely  everywhere you'd have to be blind not to see it. So if that's the case, then wouldn't you search  for something that is unconfiscatable? That if you remembered 12 words like in Bitcoin you could  move anywhere in the world with your wealth and everything else and nobody could take it from you. You could get on a plane you you don't have to

01:09:51	take a whole bunch of gold bars on a plane. Which  you would never be able to do. You can remember 12 words and you can take your wealth anywhere  and wouldn't it also be probable that jurisdictions around the world whether they're  G7 or not would compete for that wealth through competition that was  building better long-term societies because here's the thing. I'm totally fine paying  taxes. I'm totally fine. I want a firefighter in my neighbourhood. What I don't want is somebody  to lie to me, I want integrity. I want to know

01:10:40	where the taxes go and I want to live in a  society where I'm not the wealthiest person. Everybody else is living in despair. I'm happy to  pay for that, but I want it to be based on truth. I want it to be based instead  of being based on a fraud and so if you think through logically what's  happening in this open monetary network. You're going to have more and more governments  that are going to be essentially building to truth over time. So that's what makes me really  hopeful. The smartest thing that the governments

01:11:17	and the central banks could do would be to just let it grow, right? The smartest thing they could do is they know they're in a system  that has to fail. Mathematically has to fail. The smartest thing that you could do is  let it grow even regulation or some sort and when I say regulation provides  certainty that it is going to grow. So that and by the way if current policymakers  don't, new policymakers will be elected on a platform that will. People will demand it.  Do you think that Bitcoin as a movement is

01:12:03	already big enough? Yes, yes I think it's I  think it's virtually unstoppable right now. And when I say that I also want to hit it with a  caveat. I might be wrong,. but I've done a lot of work on all different possible game theory  at different outcomes and everything else. And, I hope I'm not wrong because I think  because it provides the best transition path and it provides a transition path to something  that is super hopeful for humanity. There are two important questions that we still have to cover. First of all, the first question everybody

01:12:41	has who you know just hears about Bitcoin. Why  Bitcoin and not one of the 10 000 other coins? So most of the other coins and if you use that  10x value creation so Google provides a 10x value over existing media. What ends up happening is  other companies don't see it, so they don't close the loophole as fast and google becomes kind  of a platform and monopoly power out of that. But if Microsoft saw what Google was  early on remember Google started as free, there was no there was no money there  there's no way to make money. They copied

01:13:28	a model called Overture which was a pay-per-click  model that actually gave them all the revenue. When Google started it was a free search  engine and so the whole bunch of the monopolies dismissed it, because it was nothing. Internet  wasn't big enough and everything else. There's no way to make money so it gained enough  users and transit that all of a sudden it turned and that's what I'm talking about a 10x type  of value. What Bitcoin did because of the 10 12 year cycle or whatever we're in right now  is is it created an open monetary network

01:14:06	that policy makers didn't see for a long time  and it and it drove a network effect and more and more people on that network and  created a whole bunch of value for a whole bunch of people on that network effect and  continues to do so now at a crazy great rate. If policymakers saw it in the beginning all of the  same kind of fun that's happening today would have happened. China would have stopped at  China their policy makers would have stopped it in in the beginning earlier and they could have stopped it at that point.

01:14:46	Today the more they try to stop it the more  they encourage it. It's a marketing ploy because what's happening is the more that  there's, let's use climate change there's a lot as people believe proof of work leads to  because energy usage increases climate change and and i'd say the vast majority of environmentalists  and everything else actually believe that. I hate to say this but it's almost a government  conspiracy because inflation equals climate change and if anybody can tell me why that's  wrong I would love to debate them on it but

01:15:26	inflationary and monetary policy in a finite world guarantees that this world burns guaranteed. Because people spend money  and don't think about resources as much they have if they don't have any place to save  their money. Exactly it keeps on going and going going and it gets exponentially worse so why  climate gets exponentially worse is because of inflation it's not because of Bitcoin. It's the  opposite of what people believe so the problem is they're looking through an existing system  thinking that the system can solve it and the

01:15:56	system cannot solve it. So Bitcoin is actually  the most positive thing for the environment period but that's not what most people believe. It's just that belief it's true but most people don't believe it so the more and more energy is  trying to stop this and but every time that kind of and when i say more misinformation  hits something that's based on truth more people look at that truth and realise  it. In essence, you're driving Bitcoin's adoption faster and faster and faster with more  information as more as the monetary layer gets

01:16:31	destroyed. More and more people are  looking for an alternative and you're driving that faster so that's one. Now  let's focus on your other coins so when if you saw something gaining that much  value and you were an entrepreneur what you would try to do is create a `Me too` type of thing so you could capitalise on that value. So you see Amazon and you see  early on you saw thousands of clones trying to create `Me Too` types  of companies that could stand out in difference. The only way to stand out in  difference is to provide 10 times the value

01:17:15	of the of the leader. So you'd have to same the  same thing that at 10x value in Bitcoin over gold as a `Me Too` you'd have to take to create a  10x value over Bitcoin to displace Bitcoin. I don't see it at all i don't see close to it  iIsee a whole bunch of and now people will you know some of your listeners might so say okay well  Yahoo was Yahoo was this and then Google display uh yeah yahoo which is true Google  play provided a 10x value to yahoo. And why do I know that I used both early on as a marketer we had to spend five thousand dollars

01:17:59	um per an ad space on Yahoo as a marketer on  Google. It was free we built Google it was free. It was free so it provided a 10x value  but the more important more important part is that all of those coins, all of  those kind of uh third-party coins, they're all they all become centrally controlled. It looks like so to try to produce that value over Bitcoin because Bitcoin has  this monitor it doesn't have a marketing team it doesn't have the people are the marketing  team all of these other coins have marketing

01:18:41	teams and everything else and what they need  to do is essentially centralise to be able to to try to provide more value. And  so I suspect that most of them go to to zero in time um that they're not they're  not long-term investments. I hope that's true because iIm not in Bitcoin for money I'm in  Bitcoin for kind of a change in a transition transition path but I do also understand that  this, that why governments might lean into a different coin. They could control exactly that's  because there's this weird tendency by people who

01:19:24	don't understand Bitcoin haven't put in any work,  but also you know are close to the establishment politicians, central bankers, they hate Bitcoin  and then they start you know shilling other coins because they don't have a problem talking about  Ethereum. So basically what you're saying is that the other coins tend to centralize they must and  decentralization is one of the main um advantages of Bitcoin yeah yeah that is interesting  yeah and the centralisation um fits much more into our current system. Because what they're  trying to do is stand out from Bitcoin's value.

01:20:02	Do you believe in let's go start number one do you  believe that any of these other coins has a chance to both have the run that Bitcoin had to drive the  network effect to be a monetary store of value. They will tell you they're not trying to be  a monetary standard so in other words what you're saying is Bitcoin has already won them  on monetary store value it's just very early if they win the monetary store value which they've  already won then would it be logical to drive a different coin for all of your purchasing or  would you drive a layer two network off of Bitcoin

01:20:49	to do your purchasing and I think it's pretty  obvious. What's what's going to happen and that's what El Salvador just did by coming onto  lightning and the network on on a purchasing. But while Bitcoin was going after monetary store  value there was an opening for a whole bunch of nfts whole bunch of other stuff to do other kind  of Ethereum came out as we're going to be the world super computer and a whole bunch of other  things that Bitcoin wasn't even trying to be. It was funny because Vitalik Buterin did  the `Me Too` thing yeah and now everybody

01:21:26	who was with him also it does a `Me Too`  thing of Ethereum and but again that's logica because as gas fees go up on Ethereum it  creates opportunity for other people to do the exact same thing in a race to the bottom. What  the most important thing to this conversation is it just confuses a whole bunch of people.  Yes exactly just so that's the main problem it's just people talk about cryptocurrencies  there isn't cryptocurrencies, there's Bitcoin. There's a whole bunch of others and if you wanted to if you wanted to

01:22:00	gamble like so I don't personally invest in a  whole bunch of gold mining exploration plays whereas whereby you could actually make a  lot of money there if you were the right one early and everything else and got out at  the right time most of them are stock place um but there's a couple that aren't. In the whole altcoin space I see a whole bunch of gambling and so if somebody's  time preference and they want to gamble with their money and everything else. I do understand why  they might be there and if they are in early

01:22:38	what gives them more knowledge in something than  somebody else. So I understand why people are doing that, but they can get just killed and  they because they don't understand the kind of the principles driving it. i'm personally looking  at way longer term plays and what I have what I believe in that has kind of asymmetric bet upside. What about central bank digital currencies? They're coming what does that mean  so so what it means uh the ECB put out today you know from my book. That I  wrote about uh one of the working papers

01:23:20	that talks about central bank digital currencies  and there's a reason bringing them out so you could take negative interest rates to negative  six and essentially tax people on their savings because if you did that today um people would  hold cash and so if you take interest rates too far negative people would take their money  out of the bank and they would cause a bank run because people hold cash under them beneath their  mattress. Governments cannot go way negative in rates without people moving to cash a central  bank digital currency changes that they can take

01:23:59	your money with a keystroke. They can they can  change the rules instantly and all your savings could be gone whether they would in the beginning  not who knows and everything else but it but again against an unstable system that must happen  over time it must get worse and worse and worse and all of the other consequences we talked about  must get worse and worse as a result of that. But are they coming? They are absolutely coming. Don't you think they are rushing it feels to  me they're rushing it? Because you have Bitcoin

01:24:36	it's an open monetary standard we're  operating on a network effect and a whole ecosystem building on it that is  forcing their hand and they're trying to gain the upper hand. But yes they're rushing it  and but it doesn't matter because the structure of what they're rushing cannot work anyways. Well  it can work, it can concentrate all power and control in a few number hands. If you believe, there's some there's a funny thing happening banks, the bankers, I talked to they  were never nervous about Bitcoin

01:25:09	but they're nervous about central bank  digital currencies. They don't like it. I wrote about that because it removes the  need for a bank. The banks have been the big the greatest beneficiary of printing the  greatest. The banks are given a one-way bet heads I win tails I win. I can make a a bet that everything would fail. I can lever up and everything else and everything would fail  and if I make that bet and I make way more money and things start to fail. Government comes  in and recapitalises me that's the way.

01:25:44	We don't have a system that looks like a  free market. We have a crony capitalism, the entire system is based on crony capitalism  with the banks at the very top of the ladder that have been the most enriched  by that system. Now but it required because you had central banks that were  supposed to have independence from government but now government and central  banks are really close together right because they have to be um and what  ends up happening. The central bank would print a bunch of money give it to the  banks and the banks would distribute it.

01:26:26	Well that's not happening fast enough banks  won't make those loans because they're too risky so you have m2 collapsing in real market  because there's not enough of a economy so the monetary velocity isn't getting out there. So the  central bank has to step into the bank's position through a central bank digital  currency and that means the banks essentially this is going to sound  bad, but it's true time at the trough is coming to an end. They're not needed. The more  you centralise the system, the less people profit.

01:27:02	That's what ends up happening and that's  why the path is really clear to the to very few people in control of the whole thing  and so now so now you have banks who were for were long since fighting Bitcoin are now  coming onto Bitcoin. Because they can start to project what happens next without it so some  of your strongest people that were fighting it are turning into advocates, because they  realise that without it the free market dies. Is it still alive somewhere? Which? The free  market? Not really, so the closest we have to

01:27:43	a free market is in Bitcoin and that's actually  what that brings on the high volatility rate too. But even if you use Bitcoin as a free  market um when the entire market is being misallocated like it is with printing money then  it's hard to say anything is a free market. Well I agree. But most people I would ask in here in  Austria would tell you that we're basically living through Somalia, basically there's no state, everybody for themselves, tribal capitalism. Yeah so it isn't, it's so that's created  by manipulating people's time and money

01:28:21	because money is just an arbitrary concept and  so when when somebody. Like if you believe in inflation, you also believe that you  believe that inflation is required against everything we've just talked about you  also believe that somebody should control you? Lots of people do that somebody actually some of  the top of the ladder who could change their mind with a keystroke should control all of everything  you do and if you believe in that that's fine. I just don't believe in that. I don't either,

01:28:56	but many people do. Yeah the system is  already so you know fine tuned that people want to be controlled in a way  you want to be told what to do. Or they don't know. Or they just don't know so. This conversation that we're having brings us into  awareness for a bunch more people. Some of those people that we're bringing this into awareness  will will first push back against the things because it's so different than they've they've  always believed. A change like this is radical and again it's not programmed in their mind it's  not something they think about every day. They

01:29:37	don't think about an entire economic system and  how that would reinforce and cause all this chaos. They don't need to think about that every day  they trust in the system and then build their everything they do on top of that system. When  you have the base layer of a system crumbling people are confused and they'll and what will they do typically when they're confused or fearful  of a system. They'll go into the system deeper to trust somebody to fix it for  them without without going through this

01:30:11	what we're talking about it but and they will  make this easy because there will be a central bank digital currency and then there will be  universal basic income right and and because you said you said people love the inflation.  We want to get the money we want to feel like we're getting richer and that would be  a way they don't love the inflation they don't go through this thought experiment to  get to it what they what they what they do. I use this monopoly example and so if you  and it's probably a very it to for people

01:30:43	that don't see what we're talking about. Here's what that looks like. If you go around a game board on monopoly and you play with four friends  and you are fortunate lucky enough to land on the right things the first three times around  the board and you go around it pretty quickly then you gain an up upper hand over others who  landed on go to jail, landed on free parking, and everything else. Just because of the luck of  the roll of the dice you gained an advantage that reinforces on itself as you put more houses on the properties and everything else your

01:31:21	advantage reinforces itself and and  their disadvantage reinforces on itself. os you have two systems reinforcing on  themselves and you go around the game until somebody has no more money or somebody  has all the money. Jeff thank you so much for this talk it's tonight in Vienna and the morning  in Canada I think where you're sitting. Yep! Maybe as a last question, give us your vision  for the next couple of years what's going to happen in the so-called old system and  what's going to happen in the new system?

01:31:55	The old system is going to continue to, it  must continue to print and it must continue to centralise and more and more of the free  market will be will be pushed into government spending and policy and that's going to create  a whole bunch of geopolitical risk and tension around the world and essentially that system  is going to be fighting for its last breath. By continuing to do the same thing to to  reinforce that system. I wish what I just said wasn't true but it's a mathematical certainty  but it so that's what's going to happen and that

01:32:32	that is likely to create a whole bunch  of pain for people and a whole bunch of us versus them. Most people are focusing on  um a derivative of the root cause so they're focusing on the leaves instead of the root but those things that they think are important. They are going to turn them against other people  at an ever increasing rate. So that is all these are likelihoods out of the existing system and  and that's probably what happens on the existing system. At the same time, you might have policy  makers talk about how do we how do we transition

01:33:11	what are a great reset so you're going to have a  whole bunch of things trying to get the existing system to maintain its influence and power well  a new system is emerging and that new system I believe is Bitcoin right and when i say  I believe i believe it's Bitcoin and i hope it's Bitcoin because it provides the best  transition path from one place to another so Bitcoin should materially increase it's going  to be volatile along the way um, but even if you don't believe that you should have some as  an insurance policy in case I'm right um and

01:33:50	but the entire network effect and what ends up  happening on Bitcoin is going to you know move faster and faster at the same pace the is the same  rate as kind of the other one is disintegrating. My hope is that that needle can be thread in  a way that provides the best possible path for humanity to make this transition and the people  that are the people that are helping build this transition early enough and actually a lot  of people most hurt by the existing system will most benefit from bitcoin. If you  just said. But they don't know that right.

01:34:29	No but that's actually why I talked on these  podcasts. Remember that this is something that I just volunteer I volunteer my time to be  able to do this I'm not trying to make any money from this whole uh all of this work that i do i'm  trying to get more people engaged in something that has a huge importance into their life and  their kids lives and everything else and so or at least to look at least to look deeper into what  we're talking about. Because you're right the most to hurt by this uh most hurt by the existing  system believe the most in the existing system

01:35:08	and that and um but that actually gives me hope  too. Because if you just think 21 million Bitcoin and there's 46 million multi-millionaires um and  there's uh about 2000 billionaires in the world. There is not enough Bitcoin  that the existing establishment could it could could have that much power or  Bitcoin is going to be broadly distributed and people are going to be individuals  are going to be having more say in the financial institutions of the future. But what  about you know the Bitcoin whales of today

01:35:47	they will turn into the most fabulously rich  people ever to live. So it's an interesting thing that people talk about that and say and and  and that might and and why that might be a reason not to do it. It's like saying that it's like me  saying I wouldn't invest in Amazon at five dollars because Jeff Bezos would be richer than  me. Makes no sense. Makes no sense. It makes no sense but even if you  carry that forward and you say okay and remember what's happening I keep going back to  this but we measure a system today and we measure

01:36:23	in the new system through the lens of today  and instead of what it would look like just imagine in that future that somebody has a  whole bunch of wealth on a Bitcoin standard and look like a Bitcoin standard. The only  way they can gain more wealth in that standard is to provide more value to you. If they try to  gain control by hiring more and more people to gain control or creating a war machine to create  control they distribute their Bitcoin by doing so it fixes a seated structure. It changes the  incentive structure, it doesn't bring equality

01:37:06	because people aren't equal sometimes the skill  set is more valuable today. AI research there's a skill set is more valuable than um than somebody  than a berry picker. It doesn't change equality, it changes fairness and so so bringing fair  rules and the right incentive structure ensures that that if we're delivering more  value to society we would get paid more. If we're not we but all prices keep  falling a lot along that axis from a free market we're working and if you try to  exhibit control through that you're distributing

01:37:49	Bitcoin by creating control. Jeff one last  question we started with deflation and we're going to end with deflation the fallacy  that deflation is bad because people will not spend the money. How do you destroy that?  How do you answer to that? Really simply. Do you buy a phone even though you  know the next year is going to be give you more? Of course you  do. Do you buy food even though if you waited food  might go down in price? Of course you do. There's a whole bunch of things there's a whole bunch  of economic calculations that you decide to buy

01:38:24	every day. That even though they're cheaper  in the future you'll still be it makes no sense that people believe that unilaterally. All it does is take away wasteful spending. The stuff we don't actually need there's  stuff you don't need it just takes away wasteful spending. Which and that's what the irony  is people that believe in climate change can be solved through an inflationary system that  causes climate change. Um the irony is they don't understand that point that I just that I just  said. It's just waste most of it is just waste

01:39:03	and more so the technology today is such  a path as things turn into information and information is free you get  the abundance without the things like I have a look at your phone look at all  the things that are abundant today that you used to pay for you have you have unlimited you  have unlimited. I used to buy a whole bunch of maps every time I went on a road trip. I don't  do that anymore I have an unlimited information the map became information the information became  free but that's also the reason why the system is

01:39:37	working still. That's right because I can I pay ever more for basically for my apartment but I don't really have to buy any other stuff  that's right and food and food you're paying ever more for and you're driving a system that  is essentially less things that you can charge more for as technology is embedded into more  things as taking away taking away the requirement of those things that's what's happening.  They built a 3d printed house in Germany with all the regulations and that's why i'm  saying Germany because they have the strictest

01:40:10	building regulations in the world. Again all  of these things i think if you think about uh I'll use the example of a chair because Christine  Lagarde thinks inflation will stop buying chairs and uh and that's and and then the economies  collapse so use an example of a chair. What is a chair it's information how did we  created that how do you create that chair somebody's mind had an idea for a chair um  and that to to reach economic value that idea for their chair that design of the chair must  be must work in the market in a must provide more

01:40:53	value to more people for that chair to be due to  to be produced. How do they do that they created hey what about this i have this idea for this  chair it's a unique chair and everything else. That I have this idea for a chair I'm going to  test market that whole bunch of people markets and everything else hey retail stores would you  buy this chair if i could produce it for this. I go produce it I send it to China whole bunch  more jobs whole bunch of everything else. Just on information that was in my mind and a  chair that is now produced shipped overseas put

01:41:26	in distribution distribution between distribution  warehouse and store so somebody could drive to the store to look around at all the chairs and say  I like that one drive back with their chair. Just came from information the entire job entire  structures all of the jobs combined to be all of that information within 10 years maybe even faster  that information will move into a digital printer and you'll be able to print your chair in  your in your region might be faster than 10 years and the entire supply chain and all of  those jobs of all that information moving to

01:42:08	to produce things changes radically and it  reduces it reduces costs. The next step of that is that information your idea is embedded with  artificial intelligence and you have unlimited designs unlimited information of chairs that  can be produced instantaneously for almost free. Our entire system is being redesigned  to an information-led system and there's nothing that the government can do to stop it.  It'll accelerate. So we're going from a system where we print nothing, but  too much money to a system

01:42:49	where we can print everything, but no money. Exactly so what you have is abundance and money scarcity and everything else so abundance and  is somebody choosing how much money can print creates scarcity everywhere else or scarcity and  money creates abundance everywhere else. That's the choice we live in and Bitcoin is one choice  and the existing system is the other choice. That's a lot to unpack there. But it  is it is true, that's what's happening. You know when you talk about abundance  people think you're Karl Marks.

01:43:26	And I don't think that way at all I think a  hundred percent free market I think or when I say a free market with checks and balances to be able  to make uh make sure but with where truth reigns supreme where integrity and truth matters.  That's what I that's that's what I think and I don't think um I think Karl Marx had it wrong. Why I think that is is because he missed the human condition, humans are and if you miss  the human condition we need to take humans out of the loop of monetary policy and trust  math and code because humans can be corrupted.

01:44:08	So this is one thing that the  computers actually do better? They do it than the people because because it's  like can you imagine it think thinking today that you could know more information  ,than all of the information, that's and setting policy to drive every economic  calculation down the stream. Is that ludicrous? How arrogant is it to think that you could  look backwards. Essentially, you're running an economy for the future driving  driving 90  miles an hour through your rear-view mirror

01:44:48	you're driving it off a cliff. We've known that  prices are an information system for decades it's but we're still messing with them. We're messing  with them because of human greed and arrogance. Unfortunately and the world is changing and  there's and again that human greed and arrogance is is turning into it is it is reinforcing what's  what's happening and you're seeing more and more people opt out of the system and that is what  gives you hope and optimism. That's what gives me hope and optimism because on the other side of  this transition you have something that looks and

01:45:26	this is a great that you have something that  looks way more like Star Trek than Star Wars That's a very good point to end on I  wanted to end on something positive. Let's go with Star Trek. Jeff thank you very  much your book `The Price of Tomorrow` in German `Der Preiß der Zukunft´ it's been just been  published in Germany, Austria, and Switzerland. Apricot for luck! I think you can get  it everywhere starting with Amazon. Do you want to give us one last message, where  can we follow you? What is best for me is just

01:46:02	at Jeff Booth on Twitter um the uh again my core  my core thing is I'm an entrepreneur technology businesses and everything else. This just this  just happens to be a passion because I care about the world in which my kids grow up in. I  do too! Thank you so much Jeff! Thanks very much.